_pages/awesome.md, before:

---
title: "My awesome notes"
permalink: /awesome/
---

When I found an interesting article or resource, if something opened my eyes I documented it here.

* [test && commit || revert](https://medium.com/@kentbeck_7670/test-commit-revert-870bbd756864) -
How to reduce size of the change to increase velocity? Revert the change always if tests fail!

* [Learning different technologies based in the Scala Programming Language](https://www.scala-exercises.org) - Coding exercises for Standard library, FP in Scala, Cats and other libraries.

* [Abstract Type Members versus Generic Type Parameters in Scala](https://www.artima.com/weblogs/viewpost.jsp?thread=270195) - `trait Collection[T] {}` vs. `trait Collection { type T }`.

* [The Principles of the Flix Programming Language](https://flix.dev/principles/) -
  Design principles of Flix programming language and Flix compiler. Awesome checklist.

* [Local-first applications with automerge](https://youtu.be/I4aVMYhL8Pk) -
  Conflict-Free Replicated Data Type (CRDT), binary protocol, lossless snapshots, JavaScript and Rust (WebAssembly) implementations.

* [Re-architecting Apache Kafka for the cloud](https://youtu.be/ZSuoLgNWBRU) -
  Tiered storage, Kraft cluster management (instead of ZK), multi-tenancy (consumer/producer quota, threads, connections, replication quota).

* [Understanding the Python GIL](https://youtu.be/Obt-vMVdM8s) -
  Global interpreter lock, the reason why Python doesn't scale on multi-core architectures.

* [Roblox Return to Service 10/28-10/31 2021](https://blog.roblox.com/2022/01/roblox-return-to-service-10-28-10-31-2021/) -
  Postmortem from non-trivial 73h outage due to Consul failure, why it took so long?
  Consul monitoring didn't work without Consul 😜

* [Exception Handling Considered Harmful](https://www.lighterra.com/papers/exceptionsharmful/) -
  If you have always perceived that exception handling doesn't really work.

* [The Scheduler Saga](https://youtu.be/YHRO5WQGh0k) -
  Implement Goroutines from scratch: global run-queue, distributed run-queue, work stealing, handoff, cooperative preemption, FIFO vs LIFO.

* [A Guide to the Go Garbage Collector](https://go.dev/doc/gc-guide) -
  Interesting how it differs from JVM, one or two knobs for configuration.

* [Minimal version selection (MVS)](https://research.swtch.com/vgo-mvs) -
  Dependency management algorithm to produce high fidelity builds.

* [Documenting architecture decisions](https://cognitect.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions) -
  One or two pagers with the motivations behind important architecture decisions, without ADRs this kind of knowledge evaporates.

* [Code review automated comments](https://github.com/reviewdog/reviewdog) -
  Framework used by many tools for commenting code reviews (documentation linters, static code analysis, test coverage).

* [Write a documentation like a pro](https://vale.sh) -
  Apply Microsoft or Google [style guide](https://github.com/errata-ai/packages) for your writing.

* [Test sizes](https://testing.googleblog.com/2010/12/test-sizes.html) -
  Google way for tests classification: small, medium, large (in addition to test scopes: unit, integration, e2e).

* [Pre-commit: Don’t Git hooked!](https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/pre-commit-don-t-git-hooked) -
  Don't use Git pre-commit hook for checking code quality, valuable checks take too much time to run.

* [Don’t deploy applications with Terraform](https://medium.com/google-cloud/dont-deploy-applications-with-terraform-2f4508a45987) -
  Terraform is for static resources management, not for application deployment.

Commit message:

JavaScript event loop processing model

_pages/awesome.md, after:

---
title: "My awesome notes"
permalink: /awesome/
---

When I found an interesting article or resource, if something opened my eyes I documented it here.

* [JavaScript event loop](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/EventLoop)
and [Node.js event loop](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/event-loop-timers-and-nexttick#what-is-the-event-loop) -
Runtime models for JavaScript in the browser and server side.

* [test && commit || revert](https://medium.com/@kentbeck_7670/test-commit-revert-870bbd756864) -
How to reduce size of the change to increase velocity? Revert the change always if tests fail!

* [Learning different technologies based in the Scala Programming Language](https://www.scala-exercises.org) - Coding exercises for Standard library, FP in Scala, Cats and other libraries.

* [Abstract Type Members versus Generic Type Parameters in Scala](https://www.artima.com/weblogs/viewpost.jsp?thread=270195) - `trait Collection[T] {}` vs. `trait Collection { type T }`.

* [The Principles of the Flix Programming Language](https://flix.dev/principles/) -
  Design principles of Flix programming language and Flix compiler. Awesome checklist.

* [Local-first applications with automerge](https://youtu.be/I4aVMYhL8Pk) -
  Conflict-Free Replicated Data Type (CRDT), binary protocol, lossless snapshots, JavaScript and Rust (WebAssembly) implementations.

* [Re-architecting Apache Kafka for the cloud](https://youtu.be/ZSuoLgNWBRU) -
  Tiered storage, Kraft cluster management (instead of ZK), multi-tenancy (consumer/producer quota, threads, connections, replication quota).

* [Understanding the Python GIL](https://youtu.be/Obt-vMVdM8s) -
  Global interpreter lock, the reason why Python doesn't scale on multi-core architectures.

* [Roblox Return to Service 10/28-10/31 2021](https://blog.roblox.com/2022/01/roblox-return-to-service-10-28-10-31-2021/) -
  Postmortem from non-trivial 73h outage due to Consul failure, why it took so long?
  Consul monitoring didn't work without Consul 😜

* [Exception Handling Considered Harmful](https://www.lighterra.com/papers/exceptionsharmful/) -
  If you have always perceived that exception handling doesn't really work.

* [The Scheduler Saga](https://youtu.be/YHRO5WQGh0k) -
  Implement Goroutines from scratch: global run-queue, distributed run-queue, work stealing, handoff, cooperative preemption, FIFO vs LIFO.

* [A Guide to the Go Garbage Collector](https://go.dev/doc/gc-guide) -
  Interesting how it differs from JVM, one or two knobs for configuration.

* [Minimal version selection (MVS)](https://research.swtch.com/vgo-mvs) -
  Dependency management algorithm to produce high fidelity builds.

* [Documenting architecture decisions](https://cognitect.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions) -
  One or two pagers with the motivations behind important architecture decisions, without ADRs this kind of knowledge evaporates.

* [Code review automated comments](https://github.com/reviewdog/reviewdog) -
  Framework used by many tools for commenting code reviews (documentation linters, static code analysis, test coverage).

* [Write a documentation like a pro](https://vale.sh) -
  Apply Microsoft or Google [style guide](https://github.com/errata-ai/packages) for your writing.

* [Test sizes](https://testing.googleblog.com/2010/12/test-sizes.html) -
  Google way for tests classification: small, medium, large (in addition to test scopes: unit, integration, e2e).

* [Pre-commit: Don’t Git hooked!](https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/pre-commit-don-t-git-hooked) -
  Don't use Git pre-commit hook for checking code quality, valuable checks take too much time to run.

* [Don’t deploy applications with Terraform](https://medium.com/google-cloud/dont-deploy-applications-with-terraform-2f4508a45987) -
  Terraform is for static resources management, not for application deployment.
