---
title: Crafting your own gravel bike -- a step-by-step guide
date: 2024-07-30
tags: [Bicycle, DIY]
header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/2024-07-31-gravel/overlay.jpg
    caption: ""
---

Yet another blog post about building something from scratch, I thought as I stood in my workshop, surrounded by tools and anticipation.
A familiar companion from my earlier adventures crafting a [Hi-Fi stereo amplifier](http://mkuthan.github.io/blog/2024/05/30/amplifier/) or tweaking hardware for my [Homelab](http://mkuthan.github.io/tags/#homelab).
This time, it was different, I was diving into the world of gravel bikes.

## Buying a gravel bike

* **Convenience:**
Purchasing a pre-assembled gravel bike is straightforward.
You can walk into a bike shop, choose a model, and ride it home.
* **Cost-Efficiency**:
Buying an assembled bike typically offers better value in terms of components and quality. Especially if you’re considering a previous year model, pre-built options are often more affordable.

## Building a gravel bike

* **Customization:**
On the other side, building your bike allows complete customization.
You choose every part, from frame material to groupset, wheels, and accessories.
* **Learning Experience:**
Assembling a bike enhances your understanding of its mechanics. It’s a rewarding process for DIY enthusiasts like me.
* **Bond with Your Bike:**
When you build a bike, you develop a personal connection.
Each bolt tightened becomes a part of your story.

## Initial requirements

The gravel bike would be my fourth addition to my bike fleet, complementing the existing lineup: an Orbea Avant road bike, a Scott Spark MTB bike, and a Jamis Coda city bike.
My vision for the new gravel bike is as sharp as a freshly honed spoke.

Must have:

* I’m looking for geometry that aligns with my body. Specifically, a reach between 380 and 390 mm, and a stack height of at least 570 mm but no more than 590 mm. Typically, this corresponds to a size M or 54’’ frame.
* While beauty is subjective, I couldn’t accept a matte finish on a bike designed for off-road riding. I wanted glossy painting.
* High-quality alloy frames come with a lifetime guarantee, striking a balance between performance and affordability. While carbon frames offer advantages for road bikes and full-suspension mountain bikes (MTBs), they may not be as beneficial for gravel bikes.
* Shimano GRX. It doesn’t make any sense to have a single bike with SRAM if all seven of my family’s bikes use Shimano groupsets.
* Mechanical 1×12 drivetrain. I don’t accept a front derailleur in anything other than a road bike equipped with Di2. For a gravel bike, I don’t want an electrical groupset to avoid costly replacement of broken derailleurs.

Should have:

* External headset cable routing. I service all my bikes myself and appreciate simplicity.
I don’t accept overly complex technical solutions.
* BSA threaded support. Problems with a pressfit in my Scott Spark are enough.
* Standard 27.2 mm seatpost instead of custom aerodynamic shape.
I appreciate the availability of typical components.

Nice to have:

* Generous tire clearance for widths beyond 45C. While I already own a Scott Spark MTB for challenging terrain, I value the versatility of having ample tire options.

As expected, I haven’t found any gravel bike on the market that meets my requirements 😢
{: .notice--info}

## Frame donor

TODO
